README.md, before:

# Adversarial Attacks on Chest X-Ray Disease Classification

This repository presents an experimental study on the vulnerability of deep learning models for medical image analysis to adversarial attacks. Specifically, we evaluate the impact of the **Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM)** on a convolutional neural network (CNN) trained to classify chest X-ray images as **PNEUMONIA** or **NORMAL**.

The project demonstrates that even small, visually imperceptible perturbations can significantly degrade the performance of medical image classifiers, raising serious concerns for real-world clinical deployment.

---

## 📌 Project Overview

- **Task:** Binary classification (PNEUMONIA vs NORMAL)
- **Dataset:** Chest X-Ray Images (Pneumonia)
- **Model:** Custom CNN
- **Attack Method:** Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM)
- **Framework:** PyTorch
- **Platform:** Google Colab (GPU)

---

## 📂 Dataset

The project uses the publicly available **Chest X-Ray Images (Pneumonia)** dataset, organized into training, validation, and test splits:


### Test Set Distribution

| Class      | Count |
|------------|-------|
| NORMAL     | 234   |
| PNEUMONIA  | 390   |

Images are resized to **224×224**, normalized to the range **[-1, 1]**, and converted to three-channel tensors.

---

## 🧠 Model Architecture

The CNN consists of three convolutional blocks followed by fully connected layers:

- Conv (32 filters) → ReLU → MaxPool
- Conv (64 filters) → ReLU → MaxPool
- Conv (128 filters) → ReLU → MaxPool
- Fully Connected (256 units) + Dropout
- Output layer with Sigmoid activation

The model outputs a probability score thresholded at 0.5 for binary classification.

---

## ⚙️ Training Configuration

- **Optimizer:** Adam  
- **Learning Rate:** 1e-4  
- **Loss Function:** Binary Cross-Entropy Loss  
- **Batch Size:** 32  
- **Epochs:** 5  
- **Data Augmentation:** Random horizontal flip (training only)

---

## ⚔️ Adversarial Attack: FGSM

The Fast Gradient Sign Method generates adversarial examples by perturbing the input image in the direction of the gradient of the loss with respect to the input:

\[
x_{adv} = x + \epsilon \cdot \text{sign}(\nabla_x J(\theta, x, y))
\]

We evaluate the model under different values of **ε (epsilon)** to study robustness degradation.

---

## 📊 Results

### Accuracy vs FGSM Attack Strength

| ε (Epsilon) | Test Accuracy |
|------------|---------------|
| 0.00       | 75.2%         |
| 0.01       | 67.6%         |
| 0.03       | 57.5%         |
| 0.05       | 45.5%         |
| 0.10       | 14.6%         |

The results show a **monotonic decline in accuracy** as attack strength increases, confirming the model’s vulnerability to adversarial perturbations.

## 🔍 Observations

- The model shows **high sensitivity** to pneumonia cases but **low specificity** for normal cases.
- Even small perturbations (ε = 0.01) significantly degrade performance.
- Strong attacks render the model nearly unusable.
- Adversarial images appear visually similar to clean images but cause drastic prediction changes.

---

## 🚀 How to Run

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/Adversarial-Attacks-ChestXray.git

Commit message:

Update README with notebook instructions and references
Added instructions for running the notebook and references.

README.md, after:

# Adversarial Attacks on Chest X-Ray Disease Classification

This repository presents an experimental study on the vulnerability of deep learning models for medical image analysis to adversarial attacks. Specifically, we evaluate the impact of the **Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM)** on a convolutional neural network (CNN) trained to classify chest X-ray images as **PNEUMONIA** or **NORMAL**.

The project demonstrates that even small, visually imperceptible perturbations can significantly degrade the performance of medical image classifiers, raising serious concerns for real-world clinical deployment.

---

## 📌 Project Overview

- **Task:** Binary classification (PNEUMONIA vs NORMAL)
- **Dataset:** Chest X-Ray Images (Pneumonia)
- **Model:** Custom CNN
- **Attack Method:** Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM)
- **Framework:** PyTorch
- **Platform:** Google Colab (GPU)

---

## 📂 Dataset

The project uses the publicly available **Chest X-Ray Images (Pneumonia)** dataset, organized into training, validation, and test splits:


### Test Set Distribution

| Class      | Count |
|------------|-------|
| NORMAL     | 234   |
| PNEUMONIA  | 390   |

Images are resized to **224×224**, normalized to the range **[-1, 1]**, and converted to three-channel tensors.

---

## 🧠 Model Architecture

The CNN consists of three convolutional blocks followed by fully connected layers:

- Conv (32 filters) → ReLU → MaxPool
- Conv (64 filters) → ReLU → MaxPool
- Conv (128 filters) → ReLU → MaxPool
- Fully Connected (256 units) + Dropout
- Output layer with Sigmoid activation

The model outputs a probability score thresholded at 0.5 for binary classification.

---

## ⚙️ Training Configuration

- **Optimizer:** Adam  
- **Learning Rate:** 1e-4  
- **Loss Function:** Binary Cross-Entropy Loss  
- **Batch Size:** 32  
- **Epochs:** 5  
- **Data Augmentation:** Random horizontal flip (training only)

---

## ⚔️ Adversarial Attack: FGSM

The Fast Gradient Sign Method generates adversarial examples by perturbing the input image in the direction of the gradient of the loss with respect to the input:

\[
x_{adv} = x + \epsilon \cdot \text{sign}(\nabla_x J(\theta, x, y))
\]

We evaluate the model under different values of **ε (epsilon)** to study robustness degradation.

---

## 📊 Results

### Accuracy vs FGSM Attack Strength

| ε (Epsilon) | Test Accuracy |
|------------|---------------|
| 0.00       | 75.2%         |
| 0.01       | 67.6%         |
| 0.03       | 57.5%         |
| 0.05       | 45.5%         |
| 0.10       | 14.6%         |

The results show a **monotonic decline in accuracy** as attack strength increases, confirming the model’s vulnerability to adversarial perturbations.

## 🔍 Observations

- The model shows **high sensitivity** to pneumonia cases but **low specificity** for normal cases.
- Even small perturbations (ε = 0.01) significantly degrade performance.
- Strong attacks render the model nearly unusable.
- Adversarial images appear visually similar to clean images but cause drastic prediction changes.

Open the notebook:

  Adversarial_Attacks_ChestXray.ipynb

Run all cells in Google Colab or a local PyTorch environment

## 📚 References

Ma, Z., Wang, Y., et al. Understanding adversarial attacks on deep learning based medical image analysis systems. Pattern Recognition, 2021.

Qin, X., et al. Towards evaluating the robustness of deep diagnostic models by adversarial attack. Medical Image Analysis, 2021.

Bortsova, G., et al. Adversarial attack vulnerability of medical image analysis systems. Medical Image Analysis, 2021.

Apostolidis, A., et al. A survey on adversarial deep learning robustness in medical image analysis. Electronics, 2021.

## 🚀 How to Run

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/Adversarial-Attacks-ChestXray.git

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This project is for academic and research purposes only and is not intended for clinical or diagnostic use.
